Contents

This directory contains XPCE, an   object-oriented  symbolic programming
environment for User Interfaces.  XPCE has   been  designed to cooperate
with symbolic languages such as Lisp and Prolog.


Authors

The development of XPCE was started   by  Anjo Anjewierden.  The package
was then called PCE.  He  designed  and   implemented  version  1 and 2.
Version 3 is the result of a joint  effort from Anjo Anjewierden and Jan
Wielemaker.  This was the last version based  on SunView.  Version 4 has
been designed and implemented by  Jan   Wielemaker.   It  makes the full
object oriented mechanisms underlying PCE  available   to  the Prolog or
Lisp programmer and is based on X-windows rather than SunView.


Copyrights

XPCE is NOT PUBLIC DOMAIN, NOR COPY-LEFT.   A licence can be obtained by
writing or E-mailing to xpce-request@swi.psy.uva.nl

	Jan Wielemaker
	Dept. of Social Science Informatics (SWI)
	University of Amsterdam
	Roetersstraat 15
	1018 WB  Amsterdam
	The Netherlands
	E-mail: jan@swi.psy.uva.nl

The licence fee is 500 ECU + VAT  for academic institutions and 2000 ECU
+ VAT for commercial institutions.   The   licence  agreement  is in the
directory `licence' below this directory.

Binary versions for the free Linux   operating system running on 386/486
PC hardware may be copied and used free of charge.


Commercially supported version

If you whish the benefits  of  commercial   support,  you  can  obtain a
supported version from AIIL, UK.  This version  is connected to the best
available Prolog system: Quintus Prolog   (version  3.2 currently).  The
commercial version is supposed to be   slightly  behind, but more robust
and following a better controlled release   path.   For details, contact
Simon Heywood (simon@aiil.co.uk).


Installation

See the file INSTALL for installing the binary version.  See COMPILATION
for installing from the sources.


Bugs

Bugs may be reported to   pce-bugs@swi.psy.uva.nl.   Please indicate the
PCE version, Prolog/Lisp system used.  If the  error can be isolated, it
will generally be fixed, so it is in  your interrest to report the error
in such a way that we can reproduce it.


Warranty

The authors, nor the Department or University PROVIDE ANY WARRANTY.  See
the licence agreement for further details.
